


googStatic/instance valriables vs local variables
SQL query practise them

Nullable types
out and ref parameter, params keyword, etc.
operator overloading
What are static variables. explain static keyword.
multithreading with static variables.
Runtime polymorphism with interfaces and overriding.
why string is immutable in .net?

www.WiZiQ.com/classes/

•What does int? mean? Explain the relationship with Nullable.
Hard questions:

•Explain the following snippet of code: 'from x in collection select new { x.Foo }'. What is the compiler doing? What is the CLR executing?
•Explain the "yield" keyword. What is the compiler doing internally?


8.

•Async pattern

What is the need for inner class?

What is parametric polymorphism?
2.How would you define an Anonymous Delegates and methods?
3.How does an Enumerator (IEnumerable & IEnumerator) work ? How does an Iterator work in C# 2.0 ?
7.

8.How would you choose between a abstract base class and an interface? 
9.What is MVC how does it differ from MVP ?
10.What is Dependency Injection / Inversion of Control ?
11.What Design Patterns are you familiar with ?


What is Garbage Collection ? How does it work ? What are generations in GC ?
How does the generational garbage collector in the .NET CLR manage object lifetime? What is non-deterministic finalization? 
What is the difference between Finalize() and Dispose()? 
How is the using() pattern useful? What is IDisposable? How does it support deterministic finalization? 
Explain the IDisposable pattern and how and when it should be used?
Memory leaks in .NET (Observer pattern) and the Dispose pattern. How do you find and solve performance problems? 

Why is catch(Exception) almost always a bad idea? 
What is the difference between Debug.Write and Trace.Write? When should each be used? 
What is the difference between a Debug and Release build? Is there a significant speed difference? Why or why not? 


Explain what is a delegate and show an example of its use.
What is the difference between a BeginInvoke and an Invoke?
What are the uses of delegates in c#? Ans: Avoids cross thread exception, Helps event handling
How would you define a new custom event?
Explain different ways of calling methods asynchronously.


Can attributes be placed on specific parameters to a method? Why is this useful?
What is the difference between typeof(foo) and myFoo.GetType()? 
Explain what’s happening in the first constructor: public class c{ public c(string a) : this() {;}; public c() {;} } How is this construct useful? 

ADO.net and SQL server
=======================
What is transaction? Why and when do we need it?
What is the difference between stored procedure and function?
difference between datasource and database?
How do we deploy database in the same form from developer to production(client) side? ---mdf file and ldf file
performance tuning, locking, indexing



Written Test(.Net) - Goldman sachs
I dont remember the exact questions but i can give u brief idea what were the questions like.
I have given the test as the .Net guy.
As they are using JAVA for the rest of the project, but they are using .Net for Front end (Web , windows application).
Few concepts or questions or toppics
-As the reuirement was for UI, front end so all the questions were revolving around that.
-Dataset
-DataAdaptor
-Fill()
-Outproc(SQL Server , state server)
-DebugListner
-Trace
-Application run mode (define- Debug/Trace)
-Gridview (ButtonField,CommandField)
-Viewstate
-Property to get a column from Dataset.
-Prepare well on Threading
-Prepare well on Delegates
-Design Patterns
-BinaryTextWriter
-How to get the root node of a dataset.

Is [STAThread] attribute mandatory on Main() method?
Write an algortithm to convert a number into word. For example: 12345 should be displayed as 
"Twelve thousand three hundred forty five". Design the class and show it in UML class daigram and write the code.
What is the difference between class and object. Explain with real example. Is a telephone receiver set an object? If so, why?
How can we determine the mouse coordinates in C#.NET without using mouse events?
What is the difference bewteen component and control? Classify panel, textbox, dataSource as component and control.
Tell the inheritance hieracrchy of Form class.
What is GDI?How it works? Where does it paint?
Puzzle:
Throw some light on error handling and exception handling.
What is cohesion and coupling? Give example in code. 
Explain product/software life cycle.

Functional and nonfunctional requirements.
MVP/MVC, Design principles, UML relationships, Design patterns, Cohesion, coupling, dependency inversion, etc
High level design with component diagram.
What are the basic principles/guidelines of software architecture?


Draw the sequence diagram for intercation with timer object.
What is object pooling? How to restrict a type to have only 5 objects using singleton pattern? After the fifth instance, it should return 
the first instance.

